- [Instructor] How does your application perform?
It is such a simple question and an intuitive concept.
So why is it such a challenging aspect of our work
as Spring developers?
The key to effective performance tuning
in a Spring-based application is to understand
the underlying complexity of this question.
In this video, we start to deconstruct it,
to break it down so that we can see
why it is indeed such a challenge.
This is the only way to answer it successfully.
It is only with this type of understanding
that you can take systematic steps
to improve your skills and to improve your application.
So that eventually this question,
"How does your application perform?"
is one that you are prepared to answer confidently
and accurately whenever it might come up.
The first thing to understand
is that as a Spring developer,
it is extremely likely that you have direct influence
only over a small portion of your application.
The green parts of this diagram
show the runtime environments
that a typical Spring developer manages.
You'll likely spend a good portion of your day
inside the Java components that make up your project.
One way that you can increase your fluency
is to understand how to manage
and measure the runtime JVM performance
of your Java Spring project.
Remember, every Spring-based application
is a Java application.
So it is important for a Spring developer
to understand the basics of how JVM performance works
and how the Spring framework may or may not impact
the performance of the JVM.
A proficiency with plain Vanilla,
JVM profiling, and runtime parameters
is an indispensable and often overlooked part
of a Spring developer's toolkit.
Spring also provides internal performance reporting metrics
that allow a developer to gain
more Spring specific insights into their application.
All of these topics we will address
in other portions of this course.
Now the large majority of Spring-based applications
are also composed of multiple connected systems
whose internal performance you have no control over,
or likely even visibility into.
This is by design really,
since one strong emphasis of the Spring framework itself
is to facilitate, decouple component interactions.
The green outline parts of our diagram
show elements, such as databases, APIs,
and messaging frameworks,
whose performance you depend on,
must measure and must design toward
in order to make your part of the application
as resilient as possible.
The name of the game here, what you must be able to do,
and what other portions of this course will cover
is to measure and make informed runtime configurations
based on the performance you can anticipate
from the systems that you depend on.
The connecting lines and gray parts of the diagram
illustrate the virtual and physical infrastructure
that your application is deployed on,
and the networks that you communicate over.
Here, again, a Spring developer
often has little to no control
over these parts of the system.
In many enterprise workflows,
a developer's visibility drops off sharply
when it comes to really even knowing much
about the host of your application.
It's true that one of the cheapest
and easiest ways to boost performance
of a Spring application is to boost
the computing resources that host it.
Also, sometimes this is not so easy given the complexity
of shared hosting environments, et cetera.
So when it comes to this part,
the best defense against any deployment situation
is to know what your application needs
in terms of computing resources,
so that you can communicate clearly
to the other teams and decision makers
that are responsible for that part of your system.
Now, this aspect of deployment uncertainty,
taken together with all the other complexities
of a Spring-based application,
point to why an accurate and holistic understanding
of your application's performance profile
is the ultimate goal of any Spring developer.
When you have that information,
you can explain it, you can improve it,
and you can continue to extend the resilience
of your application over its entire life cycle.
A proactive practice of performance profiling
will allow you to meet the challenges
of not only predictable growth and feature extensions,
but also unpredictable stress conditions
or deployment configurations.
As this course progresses,
we are going to build together
practical example of a performance profile.
It is within reach for any Spring developer to understand,
improve, and communicate the performance
of your Spring application.
Now that we have taken this important step
of breaking down the complexity of the problem,
please continue with me
as we start building our Spring performance skills.